:title: Homework #07
:subtitle: Monday, November 14, 2016
:status: hidden

**DUE: Monday, November 21, 2016 before class in Box B in the MAE department.**

`PDF Version <{attach}/materials/hw-07.pdf>`_

Problem 1
=========

Determine the safety factors at points A and B for the bracket shown below.  It
is made of ASTM Class 50 Cast Iron (Table A-24). The variables have the
following values: l = 6in, a = 8 in, d = 1.5 in, F = 1000 lb. Use the modified
Mohr Theory.

.. image:: {attach}/images/hw-07-prob-01.png
   :class: homeworkfig

Problem 2
=========

(1) Estimate the endurance limit and the low cycle fatigue strength for an
axially loaded ground steel specimen with :math:`S_{ut} = 150 \mathrm{ksi}`,
:math:`d= 1.0 \mathrm{in}`, and :math:`T = 70^\circ \mathrm{F}`. (2) Determine
the expected life for :math:`\sigma_a = 75 \mathrm{ksi}` and :math:`\sigma_m=0
\mathrm{ksi}`.

Problem 3
=========

Determine the required diameter for a round steel element that is axially
loaded from -2500 to 2500 lb in fully reversed cycles. Assume it is ground,
:math:`S_{ut} = 150 \mathrm{ksi}`, and is loaded at :math:`T = 70^\circ
\mathrm{F}`. Determine the diameter for infinite life and :math:`10^3` cycles.

Problem 4
=========

Given a 2024-T3 aluminum specimen forged to :math:`2.0 \mathrm{in}` round,
determine the fatigue strength for :math:`3 \times 10^7` cycles of loading for
fully reversed torsion. Note that for non-ferrous metals, the unmodified
fatigue strength is taken at :math:`N = 5 \times 10^8` cycles (see Table A-24).

Problem 5
=========

A simple hot rolled 1020 steel cantilever beam of length 0.6 m is loaded
transversely at the end with a fully reversing load of :math:`\pm 5
\mathrm{kN}`. The beam has a rectangular cross section with a width of
:math:`40 \mathrm{mm}`. What is the required height of the beam's cross section
to guarantee safe operation up to :math:`N = 10^4 \mathrm{cycles}` with a
design factor of 2? Neglect any stress concentrations.
